# nf-core/assesspool: Output

## Introduction

This document describes the output produced by the pipeline.

The directories listed below will be created in the results directory after the pipeline has finished. All paths are relative to the top-level results directory.

<!-- TODO nf-core: Write this documentation describing your workflow's output -->

## Pipeline overview

The pipeline is built using [Nextflow](https://www.nextflow.io/) and processes data using the following steps:

- [Pipeline information](#pipeline-information) - Report metrics generated during the workflow execution

### Index

<details markdown="1">
<summary>Output files</summary>

- `index/`
  - `*.fai/gzi`: FAI index of FASTA reference genome/assembly.
  - `*.tbi`: VCF index.

</details>

Results from calling `samtools faidx` on the reference assembly and `tabix` on the input VCF.

### Filtering results

<details markdown="1">
<summary>Output files</summary>

- `filter/`
  - `incremental/`
    - VCF files (`*.vcf.gz`) and their associated index files (`*.tbi`) containing results of stepwise filtering operations.
  - `bcftools/`
    - Results of cumulative filtering operations performed using `bcftools` (`*.vcf.gz`, `*.tbi`)
  - `vcftools/`
    - Results of cumulative filtering operations performed using `cftools` (`*.vcf.gz`, `*.tbi`)

</details>

Results of VCF filtering. Contains both stepwise and and cumulative filter operations.

### grenedalf sync

<details markdown="1">
<summary>Output files</summary>

- `sync/`
  - `pairwise/`
    - `<project>_<pool1>-<pool2>.sync`: Individual (headerless) pairwise sync file.
  - `<project>_sync.sync`: Sync file (in grenedalf headered format) for all pools.

</details>

Sync files generated from input VCF (or copied / filtered from input sync file).

### Fisher's test results

<details markdown="1">
<summary>Output files</summary>

- `fisher/`
  - `assesspool/*.tsv`: pairwise Fisher's test results using built-in assessPool method
  - `popoolation/*.fisher`: pairwise Fisher's test results using PoPoolation2
  - `combined/<project>.fisher`: All concatenated pairwise Fisher's test results 


</details>

Results of Fisher's exact test calculations for each selected calculation method, both concatenated and single pairwise comparisons. 

### F<sub>st</sub> results

<details markdown="1">
<summary>Output files</summary>

- `fst/`
  - `grenedalf/*.tsv`: F<sub>st</sub> results calculated using `grenedalf`.
  - `popoolation/*.fst`: F<sub>st</sub> results calculated using `PoPoolation2`.
  - `poolfstat/*.tsv`: F<sub>st</sub> results calculated using `poolfstat`.
  - `<project>.fst`: Concatenated pairwise F<sub>st</sub> results for all methods

</details>

Pairwise F<sub>st</sub> results by individual calculation method and concatenated.


### Pipeline information

<details markdown="1">
<summary>Output files</summary>

- `pipeline_info/`
  - Reports generated by Nextflow: `execution_report.html`, `execution_timeline.html`, `execution_trace.txt` and `pipeline_dag.dot`/`pipeline_dag.svg`.
  - Reports generated by the pipeline: `pipeline_report.html`, `pipeline_report.txt` and `software_versions.yml`. The `pipeline_report*` files will only be present if the `--email` / `--email_on_fail` parameter's are used when running the pipeline.
  - Reformatted samplesheet files used as input to the pipeline: `samplesheet.valid.csv`.
  - Parameters used by the pipeline run: `params.json`.

</details>

[Nextflow](https://www.nextflow.io/docs/latest/tracing.html) provides excellent functionality for generating various reports relevant to the running and execution of the pipeline. This will allow you to troubleshoot errors with the running of the pipeline, and also provide you with other information such as launch commands, run times and resource usage.
